Hi everybody and welcome back.
Now the last lecture we had a very quick introduction into pite and dictionaries the topic of this section
but in this lecture we're going to look at exactly what's going on inside a dictionary.
So as we know in a dictionary is a collection of key value pairs.
Each key is connected to a value and I can use a key to access the value associated with that key a
key value can be a number a string a list or even an order dictionary.
You can use any object that you can create in Python as a value in a dictionary dictionary are wrapped
in curly brackets with a series of key value pairs inside them.
So as we saw in our last lecture we created a dictionary called Book 1.
So let's just do that again.
Book 1 equals nine curly brackets and now we have a first key which we called Oerter.
And as you can see that is wrapped in single quotes.
Each key is separated by a colon and the value that we want to assign to this key is Tony and the author's
name.
I wish I'd written a book and let's just close out of a key value pair.
It is a set of values associated with each other.
When you provide a key pipefitters the value associated with that key we showed up in the last letter
where we asked to print the order and we got totally stoned and in return every key is connected to
its value by a colon an individual key value pairs are separated by commas.
So let's add in and note a key value pair comma.
Let's call this from price
and that's assigned to value 10.
You can store as many key value pairs as you want in a dictionary.
The simplest dictionary has only one key value pair.
If you're anything like me then right now you're wondering what's the difference between lists or tuple
and dictionaries.
What dictionary.
You don't store information in a sequence.
Instead you store it in pairs.
And as I said previously piping dictionaries are a lot like real world dictionaries in a real dictionary.
Each entry is a pair a word and it's definition.
When you look up a word you get a definition.
So I hope that explains pite and dictionaries and a little bit more detail for you and a key value pairs
and how dictionaries are created and the next lecture.
We're going to be creating dictionaries and then retrieving values from them.
Thank you for listening and I'll see you in the next lecture.